#summary Release notes for ImageListView
#labels Phase-Implementation,Featured

= 6.3 (03 April 2010) =

  * Public properties of !ImageListViewItem are now properly categorized. (Issue 60)
  * Fixed an issue where the wrong exif tag was read for the !DateTaken property. The Exif DateTime tag was being read instead of DateTimeOriginal. (Issue 62)

= 6.2 (16 March 2010) =

  * Fixed a bug where virtual items could not be inserted if !AllowDuplicateFileNames was set to true. (Issue 51)

= 6.1 (11 March 2010) =

  * Added !CheckedItems property to !ImageListView to iterate checked items. (Issue 47)
  * Added a new overload for the Items.Add method to provide an initial thumbnail for regular items (similar to virtual items). (Issue 49)
  * Fixed an issue where checkbox and icon padding resulted in weird rendering in details view. (Issue 50)

= 6.0 (10 March 2010) =

  * Added support for color themes. (Issue 37) Contributed by Robby.
  * Added file icons that can be displayed over items. (Issue 39, Issue 45, Issue 46) Contributed by Robby.
  * Added checkboxes to items. (Issue 40, Issue 46) Contributed by Robby.
  * Fixed a bug where the hovered item was not updated while scrolling with the mouse wheel. (Issue 42)
  * Scrollbars' large change property now calculated as a multiple of item height. (Issue 43)

= 5.4 (03 March 2010) =

  * Added the !MultiSelect property. (Issue 32)
  * Fixed an issue where transparent images were always drawn with a white background  (Issue 35)
  * Scrollbars can now be hidden with the new !ScrollBars property. (Issue 36)

= 5.3 (02 March 2010) =

  * Initial thumbnails of virtual items are now sized down to control's !ThumbnailSize property on item add. (Issue 33)

= 5.2 (01 March 2010) =

  * Fixed a bug where the control was not refreshed after removing all items (Issue 29).
  * !ImageListView now falls back to shell icons if it cannot extract image thumbnails (Issue 30). Contributed by Robby.
  * Exif properties of !ImageListViewItem are now marked as browsable (Issue 31).

= 5.1 (25 February 2010) =

  * Fixed a bug where source image files were being kept locked (Issue 26).
  * Removed the !ImageListViewItem.!GetImage method (Issue 27).

= 5.0 (17 February 2010) =

  * Added the !CacheMode property. (Issue 22)
  * Added Mono support. (Issue 25)

= 4.8 (11 February 2010) =

  * Added the public !VirtualItemKey property to !ImageListViewItem (Issue 24).

= 4.7 (10 February 2010) =

  * Added the !ItemHover and !ColumnHover events (Issue 23).
  * Added the !DropFiles event (Issue 19).

= 4.6 (27 January 2010) =

  * Fixed a bug in renderers where virtual item thumbnails were drawn without regards to the !ThumbnailSize property (Issue 17).
  * Fixed a bug where the item click event was fired only if the item was not selected (Issue 18).

= 4.5 (26 January 2010) =

  * Fixed a race condition that occurred if an initial thumbnail image was supplied for a virtual item (Issue 16).
  * Added the !RetryOnError property to the control. When set to true, the cache thread will continuously poll the control for a thumbnail, until it gets a valid image. When set to false, the cache thread will give up after the first error and display the !ErrorImage.

= 4.4 (21 January 2010) =

  * The control is now scrolled while dragging items to the edges of the client area.

= 4.3 (21 January 2010) =

  * Fixed an issue where item text was not set in virtual mode. (Issue 14)
  * Fixed an issue where the !ImageListViewItemCollection.Clear method did not immediately empty the thumbnail cache. (Issue 15)

= 4.2 (12 January 2010) =

  * An initial thumbnail image may now be specified while adding virtual items. (Issue 13)

= 4.1 (12 January 2010) =

  * Virtual items now support drag and drop.

= 4.0 (12 January 2010) =

  * Added support for virtual items. (Issue 12)

= 3.4 (04 January 2010) =

  * Fixed a bug in drag and drop controller. (Issue 11)

= 3.3 (29 December 2009) =

  * Fixed a bug in !NoirRenderer.!DrawGalleryImage where the image was tried to be drawn when the control was empty.
  * !NoirRenderer now displays a nicer insertion caret.
  * Renamed !ImageListViewRenderer.!OnDispose to Dispose.
  * Removed !ImageListViewRenderer.!DrawScrollBarFiller virtual method.

= 3.2 (29 December 2009) =

  * Added the new !NoirRenderer. (Issue 10)

= 3.1 (28 December 2009) =

  * XPRenderer now works in Pane view mode. (Issue 8)
  * Drag-and-drop honors !AllowDuplicateFileNames setting. (Issue 9)

= 3.0 (27 December 2009) =

  * Added the new Pane view mode, removed !PanelRenderer.
  * Fixed an issue where buffered graphics could not be created while repeatedly resizing the control.

= 2.8 (21 December 2009) =

  * Adjustable properties of built-in renderers are now public.
  * Removed !ImageListView.!ItemMargin property in favor of the new overridable !ImageListViewRenderer.!MeasureItemMargin method.
  * Gallery image is now updated after editing an item.
  * Moved column sort icons to the neutral resource.
  * Cleaned up the Utility class.

= 2.7 (20 December 2009) =

  * Fixed a bug where updating an item did not update the item thumbnail.

= 2.6 (20 December 2009) =

  * Added XML comments for all public fields.
  * Removed the !ImageListViewRenderer.!GetSortArrow function. Sort arrow is now drawn in the !DrawColumnHeader method.
  * Fixed the issue about the missing semicolon in GIF files. (Issue 6)
  * Removed the !SortOrder enum, it was a duplicate of Windows.Forms.!SortOrder.
  * Double clicking on a separator no longer rises a column click event.

= 2.5 (16 December 2009) =

  * The view is now scrolled while dragging the mouse outside the control's client area.
  * The selection rectangle can no longer paint over the scroll bars.

= 2.4 (16 December 2009) =

  * Panel renderer now displays the name of the image file in its panel in Thumbnail mode.
  * Removed the confusing !AllowItemDrag property from !ImageListView.
  * Moved the scroll timer in to the navigation manager.
  * Fixed a bug in !ImageListViewItemCollection.!RemoveAt method where the control's !OnSelectionChanged event was fired after the item was removed from the collection.
  * Default renderer now shades the background of !SortColumn in Details mode.

= 2.3 (15 December 2009) =

  * Hovering items while the control does not have focus now draws highlighted item background.
  * Changing !BackColor and placeholder images redraws the control.
  * Sorting properties now check if a sort is actually needed.
  * Removed the Hovered property from !ImageListViewItem and !ImageListViewColumnHeader.
  * The wait cursor is displayed while sorting items.
  * Fixed issues with keyboard navigation and drag&drop logic. (inc. Issue 1, Issue 4, Issue 5 and Issue 7)

= 2.2 (13 December 2009) =

  * Cleaned up the utility class.
  * Moved default and error images to the neutral resource.
  * Fixed places where !ImageListViewRenderer.Refresh was called instead of Control.Refresh. This should increase rendering performance.

= 2.1 (11 December 2009) =

  * Fixed a bug where cache managers tried to invoke the control after its handle was destroyed.

= 2.0 (09 December 2009) =

  * Cache threads now exit gracefully.
  * Added new column types for common Exif tags.
  * Added English and Turkish resources for new columns.
  * Panel renderer displays Exif tags from item properties.
  * !TilesRenderer's default width is now 150 pixels.
  * Added the new column types to !ImageListViewItemComparer.

= 1.4 (07 December 2009) =

  * Added the !BeginEdit and !EndEdit methods to !ImageListViewItem. They should be used while editing items to prevent collisions with cache threads.
  * Custom renderers now use the central thumbnail cache instead of their own worker threads.

= 1.3 (04 December 2009) =

  * Moved the !ThumbnailFromFile method to the static Utility class. It is used by all renderers.
  * Renderers now check the thumbnails for errors.
  * !ImageListViewItem.!GetSubItemText now returns an empty string for uninitialized item properties.
  * !ImageListViewCacheManager now checks the thumbnails for errors.
  * !StringFormats are now properly disposed.

= 1.2 (03 December 2009) =

 * Cached images are now properly disposed.

= 1.1 (30 November 2009) =
  * Fixed !ImageListView.!EnsureVisible to work with the Gallery mode.
  * !ImageListViewCacheManager now properly zeroes out the memory used when it clears the cache. 
  * The preview image is now loaded by a background thread in Gallery view mode. 
  * Threaded renderers now use a !BackgroundWorker.
  * Preview image in Gallery mode is now cached. 
  * Introduced Tuples, used mainly while talking to worker threads. 
  * !PanelRenderer now displays some common Exif tags.

= 1.0 (28 November 2009) =
  * Added the Gallery view mode. (Issue 2)
  * Modified the hit testing, scrolling and the custom renderers to work with the Gallery view mode.

= 0.18 (27 November 2009) =

  * Control border is now drawn by the framework.
  * Fixed a bug in layout manager where number of visible columns or rows could be zero when the control is sized too small.
  * Added the new overridable method, !OnLayout to the !ImageListViewRenderer. It can be used to modify the size of the item area by custom renderers.
  * Added the new !PanelRenderer. 
  * Fixed a bug in !TilesRenderer where the caption font was requested before being created. 
  * Fixed the !ImageListView.!HitTest method to work with the new !ImageListViewRenderer.!OnLayout method.

= 0.17 (26 November 2009) =

  * Maximum size of the thumbnail cache can now be (approximately) set by the user using the new !ImageListView.!CacheLimit property. 
  * Removing items now correctly removes associated thumbnails from the cache. To decrease the number of locks, removed item thumbnails are purged from the cache in batches of 25% of !ImageListView.!CacheLimit.

= 0.16 (24 November 2009) =

  * Caption font of !TilesRenderer is now disposed properly. 
  * Removed the !CacheSize property from !ImageListView and !ImageListViewCacheManager. It wasn't properly implemented and resulted in deadlocks. 
  * Added a check to !ImageListViewRenderer.Render() to return immediately if the renderer is disposed.

= 0.15 (24 November 2009) =

  * Zoom percentage can now be specified in the constructor of !ZoomingRenderer.

= 0.14 (23 November 2009) =

  * !ZoomingRenderer is now threaded. 
  * Organized custom renderers in a static !ImageListViewRenderers class.

= 0.13 (23 November 2009) =

  * Fixed a bug in rendering draw order. 
  * Added the !GetImage() method to !ImageListViewItem. 
  * Added !ItemAreaBounds and !ColumnHeaderBounds properties to !ImageListViewRenderer.
  * Added new custom renderers.

= 0.12 (22 November 2009) =

  * Renderers can now draw items in a specific order using the new !ImageListViewRenderer.!ItemDrawOrder property. A finer control is also possible using the new !ImageListViewItem.ZOrder property.
  * The previous renderer is now properly disposed when !ImageListView.!SetRenderer is called.

= 0.11 (21 November 2009) =

  * Added the Clip property and the !InitializeGraphics virtual function to !ImageListViewRenderer.

= 0.10 (19 November 2009) =

  * Fixed an issue where the item border was not drawn if the item had the focus.

= 0.9 (18 November 2009) =

  * Fixed a curious bug in the layout code. It appears that Control.Visible returns not what you set in code, but whether the control is actually visible (the control and its parent are visible) This resulted in a stack overflow if the layout code was called before !ImageListView became visible. Visible property of child scrollbars always returned false because their parent was not visible. It was quite hard to identify the issue, although the fix was straightforward (keep separate variables for scrollbars visible properties).

= 0.8 (16 November 2009) =

  * Fixed a bug in the !OnDragDrop handler. The base class method was being called at the start of the function. It is now called at the end, after the drop operation is completed.

= 0.7 (14 November 2009) =

  * Reduced the number of locks in worker threads.
  * A list of visible items is being kept to speed up item lookups.

= 0.6 (12 November 2009) =

Project moved to Google Code.

== Previous Release Notes ==

  * The framework requirement is droppped down to .NET 2.0. This version is identical to previous 3.5 version both feature-wise and performance-wise.
  * Item properties are read by a background thread to speed up item addition.
  * Items can now be reordered by dragging them in the control.
  * Item details added for image dimensions and resolution.
  * Fixed a bug while iterating the selected item collection threw an exception.
  * Item file types are now cached. Adding items should be much faster.
  * Fixed a bug where right clicking on the control when the item collection is empty threw an exception.
  * Fixed a bug where removing items while iterating through the selected item collection threw an exception.
  * Fixed a visual glitch where removing all items from the control at once did not set the scroll coordinates to 0, 0.
  * Added drag&drop support. Image files recognized by the .NET framework (whatever Image.!FromStream accepts) can now be dragged on to the control. Also image thumbnails can now be dragged from the control as files. Drag&drop behavior can be customized using the !AllowDrag and !AllowDrop properties.
  * Added a new option for detecting duplicate filenames. When !AllowDuplicateFileNames property is set to false, the control will silently refuse to add an image file, if it already exists in the items collection. Comparison is made between filenames as case-insensitive ordinal string comparison.
  * Fixed a bug where right clicking on selected items cleared the selection.
  * Fixed a glitch where the control's text (hidden property) was serialized as null.
  * !ImageListView can now extract embedded EXIF thumbnails. A new property (!UseEmbeddedThumbnails) is added to customize this behavior.
  * A public Index property is added to the !ImageListViewItem class.